User Auth Providers (#1745)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/authentication-authorization/ldap-integration.adoc

. Map the groups in the LDAP system to the Neo4j built-in and custom roles.
For more information, see xref:authentication-authorization/ldap-integration.adoc#auth-ldap-map-ldap-roles[Map the LDAP groups to the Neo4j roles].

> [role=label--new-5.24]

Reviewer: remember to update number to correct version once that is settled

[[auth-ldap-auth-objects]]
== Use Auth Objects to configure authentication / authorization at the user level
xref:authentication-authorization/auth-objects.adoc[Auth Objects] can be used to determine which users can authenticate and authorize using the configured providers, including LDAP.

[NOTE]
====
You need to change the `dbms.security.require_local_user` configuration setting to `true` to use Auth Objects. This means that a user with a matching Auth Object *must* exist in order to be able to authenticate and authorize.
====

The following examples show how you can use Cypher to do this.

.Create a user with an Auth Object who can authenticate and authorize using `LDAP`.
======

> ----

Reviewer: should all of these have any `[source,cypher,role=noplay]` headers? (not sure which roles they should have, I copied the first one I found as an example)

Reviewer 2: Good catch, @Hunterness

CREATE USER alice
SET AUTH PROVIDER 'ldap' { SET ID 'cn=alice,ou=engineering,dc=example,dc=com' }
----
This will create a user who can authenticate and authorize using LDAP provided their LDAP `dn` is `cn=alice,ou=engineering,dc=example,dc=com`.

> When the `dbms.security.require_local_user` configuration setting is set to `true`, users can *only* authenticate when there is a user in the database with an Auth Object which links to the provider that the user is trying to authenticate with. If there is no matching Auth Object, the user will not be able to authenticate or authorize. This applies to all providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `dbms.security.require_local_user` configuration setting is set to `true`, users can *only* authenticate when there is a user in the database with an Auth Object which links to the provider that the user is trying to authenticate with.
If there is no matching Auth Object, the user will not be able to authenticate or authorize. This applies to all providers.
```
just to not have that long lines (and docs prefer splitting on sentences and not having line breaks in the middle of sentences)

> When the `dbms.security.require_local_user` configuration setting is set to `true`, users can *only* authenticate when there is a user in the database with an Auth Object which links to the provider that the user is trying to authenticate with. If there is no matching Auth Object, the user will not be able to authenticate or authorize. This applies to all providers.

Reviewer: do we want to mention something about these not being checked it the config setting is false even if they are added?

Author: yes. done.

======

.Create a user with two Auth Objects allowing the user to authenticate and authorize with either LDAP or the `oidc-mysso` provider.
======
----

> CREATE USER alice

Reviewer: is this page doing the docs tests? and if so, will it be an issue that alice is created multiple times?

Author: not sure how to check that. Will this be an issue @renetapopova ?

Reviewer 2: We don't test them at the moment.

Author: we could change them to `CREATE OR REPLACE` for in case we start testing?

Reviewer 2: I think I've already changed it. Either way, all the pages in the Authentication and Authorization section need a proper review and restructuring because they are super long and inconsistent in style with the rest of the manual. I am happy to do that when I have some time.

SET HOME DATABASE anotherDb
SET AUTH PROVIDER 'ldap' { SET ID 'cn=alice,ou=engineering,dc=example,dc=com' }
SET AUTH 'oidc-mysso1' {SET ID 'alicesUniqueMySso1Id'}
----
This will create a user who can authenticate and authorize using `ldap` or `oidc-mysso`. See xref:authentication-authorization/sso-integration.adoc#auth-sso-auth-objects[SSO integration] for more information on setting up an OIDC provider.

> This example also illustrates that the user can have their `HOME` database set even when using an external auth provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example also illustrates that the user can have their home database set even when using only external auth providers.
```
you do set two providers so saying a provider felt weird

and we don't generally refer to it as `HOME` database as far as I'm aware

======

.Alter a user to remove one of their Auth Objects.
======
----
ALTER USER alice

> REMOVE AUTH 'ldap'
> 
> ----
> This will prevent the user from being able to authenticate and authorize using `ldap`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REMOVE AUTH 'ldap'
----
This will prevent the user from being able to authenticate and authorize using `ldap`.
```

======

.Alter a user to allow them to authenticate and authorize using username and password
======
----
ALTER USER alice

> SET AUTH 'native' {SET PASSWORD 'changeme' SET PASSWORD CHANGE REQUIRED}
> 
> ----
> This will allow the user to authenticate and authorize using the specified username and password (in addition to what they are already configured to use).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SET AUTH 'native' {SET PASSWORD 'changeme' SET PASSWORD CHANGE REQUIRED}
----
This will allow the user to authenticate and authorize using the specified username and password (in addition to what they are already configured to use).
```

======

.Configure the database to allow authentication via `ldap` and authorization via the `native` provider.
======

Set the following database config:
[source,configuration,role="noheader"]
----
dbms.security.authentication_providers=ldap
dbms.security.authorization_providers=native
----

Then create a user with an `ldap` Auth Object:
----
CREATE USER alice
SET AUTH PROVIDER 'ldap' { SET ID 'cn=alice,ou=engineering,dc=example,dc=com' }
----

> Then natively grant the `ANALYST` role to the user:

Reviewer: is this role mentioned elsewhere in this file so readers would know what it is? Or does it need any explanation (I'm just reading the new section so this was the first time I came across it)

Author: no, it was introduced here.
I've changed it to the existent `READER` role.

Reviewer: This was only updated in the SSO file but missed in the LDAP file :(
